Anfisa introduction
===================

Genome sequencing is rapidly becoming routine in clinical practice and in everyday life. We have started building a community of clinicians, researchers and professional software developers from different countries and backgrounds to create the first community-built and fully open-source genomic analysis software platform - Forome. The Forome Genomics Platform is capable of simultaneously supporting both clinical and research workflows for all flavors of genetic data, thus providing functionality of an integrated development environment for clinical guidelines, and speeding up the adoption of genome sequencing into clinical practice.

Forome includes a Variant Curation Tool Forome Anfisa (henceforth referred to as Anfisa) which is based on three simple ideas: using Multidimensional DBMS for genetic data, using curated decision trees for clinical rules and crowdsourcing of the most difficult cases.

Anfisa is the first community-built and fully open-source variant analysis and curation tool, which is a part of Forome (Forum for Omics) - a Germline Genomics Analysis software platform being developed through establishing a community of clinicians, researchers and professional software developers. The key features of Forome are the support of both clinical and research workflows for all types of genetic data, including Mendelian analysis on a case-by-case basis and on cohorts of patients. The main idea of the project is to provide the ability to seamlessly transform research workflows into novel clinical protocols by building a notebook-like environment for designing clinical guidelines. We believe that Forome bridges a gap in the current ecosystem of genetic analysis software that we explain in the Discussion section. 

Describing a product that is built on the collaborative efforts of an extremely diverse team in sufficient detail and of consistent interest to both clinicians and information technology (IT) developers is a daunting task. We think that different sections of our paper might attract different readers. Sections describing Feature Engineering, User Experience, Application of the software and Approaches to Variant Curation are geared more towards clinicians with research interests; Architecture and Implementations subsections are primarily intended towards professional developers of IT solutions, while description of our compound heterozygous variant caller and the overview of the software ecosystem in this domain might be of interest to bioinformaticians.

